Feature/2019 01 14 terraform serverless (#481)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless.md

resource "aws_dynamodb_table" "codingtips-dynamodb-table" {
  name = "CodingTips"
  read_capacity = 5
  write_capacity = 5
  hash_key = "Author"
  range_key = "Date"

  attribute = [
    {
      name = "Author"
      type = "S"
    },
    {
      name = "Date"
      type = "N"
    }]
}
```

Since Dynamo is a NoSql database we don't have to specify all attributes upfront.
The only thing we have to provide are the elements for aws to build the partition key with.
When you provide a hash key as well as a sort key aws will combine these to make a unique partition key.
Mind the word UNIQUE.
Make sure this combination is unique.

> DynamoDB uses the partition key value as input to an internal hash function. 
The output from the hash function determines the partition (physical storage internal to DynamoDB) in which the item will be stored. 
All items with the same partition key value are stored together, in sorted order by sort key value.
-- from AWS docs: <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/HowItWorks.CoreComponents.html">https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/HowItWorks.CoreComponents.html</a>

> From the attribute definitions in dynamo.tf it is clear that Author (S) is a string and Date (N) should be a number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the attribute definitions in 'dynamo.tf' it is clear that Author (S) is a string and Date (N) should be a number.
```

# IAM
<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/icon-IAM.png" width="15%" height="15%">
</div>

Before specifying the Lambda Functions we create all the permissions for our functions.
Basically, this is making sure that our functions have permissions to access other resources (like DynamoDB).
Without going to deep into it the aws permission model works as follows:

> * you give a resource a role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide a resource with a role
```

> * to this role you add permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add permissions to this role
```

> * these permissions give it access to other resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* These permissions give allow the role to access other resources:
```

>     * either permission for triggering an other resource (eg. Lambda Function forwards logs to CloudWatch)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *  permissions for triggering another resource (eg. Lambda Function forwards logs to CloudWatch)
```

>     * or permission for being triggered by an other resource (eg. Lambda Function may be triggered by ApiGateway)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *  permissions for being triggered by another resource (eg. Lambda Function may be triggered by API Gateway)
```

  assume_role_policy = <<EOF
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "lambda.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Sid": ""
    }
  ]
}
EOF
}

# POLICIES
resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "dynamodb-lambda-policy"{
  name = "dynamodb_lambda_policy"
  role = "${aws_iam_role.lambda-iam-role.id}"
  policy = <<EOF
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:*"
      ],
      "Resource": "${aws_dynamodb_table.codingtips-dynamodb-table.arn}"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "cloudwatch-lambda-policy"{
  name = "cloudwatch-lambda-policy"
  role = "${aws_iam_role.lambda-iam-role.id}"
  policy = "${data.aws_iam_policy_document.api_gateway_logs_policy_document.json}"
}

data "aws_iam_policy_document" "api_gateway_logs_policy_document" {
  statement {
    actions = [
      "logs:CreateLogStream",
      "logs:CreateLogGroup",
      "logs:PutLogEvents"
    ],
    resources = [
      "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
    ]
  }
}

```

In the example above the first resource that is defined is an `aws_iam_role`.

> This is the role that we will later give to our Lambda Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the role that we will later give to our Lambda functions.
```

> Then, we create `aws_iam_role_policy` resources to attach the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then create the `aws_iam_role_policy` policy to attach to the role.
```
Not sure if I understood this correct?

Author: I will change the syntax. I am referring to the "aws_iam_role_policy" "dynamodb-lambda-policy"  in which we state role = "${aws_iam_role.lambda-iam-role.id}" to couple both resources.

The first `aws_iam_role_policy` is giving this role permission to invoke any action on the specified DynamoDB resource.

> The second role_policy allows a resource with this role to send logs to CloudWatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second 'role_policy' allows a resource with this role to send logs to CloudWatch.
```

A couple of things to notice:
* The `aws_iam_role` and the `aws_iam_role_policy` are connected by the `role` argument of the role_policy resource

> * In the `statement` attribute of the `aws_iam_role_policy` we grant (Effect attr.) permission to do some actions (Action attr.) on a certain Resource (Resource attr.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the `statement` attribute of the `aws_iam_role_policy` we grant (Effect attr.) permission to do some actions (Action attr.) on a certain resource (Resource attr.)
```

Not really sure what this means?

Author: I am referencing to the 'Statement' attribute, which has the keys Effect, Action and Allow.
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:*"
      ],
      "Resource": "${aws_dynamodb_table.codingtips-dynamodb-table.arn}"
    }

* A resource is referenced by its *arn* or *Amazon Resource Name* which uniquely identifies this resource on aws
* There are two ways to specify an `aws_iam_role_policy`: 

>     * the first using the *untill EOF* syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * using the *untill EOF* syntax
```

>     * the second using a separate terraform `data` element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * using a separate terraform `data` element
```

> * The dynamodb-lambda-policy allows all actions on the specified dynamodb resource because under the action attribute is states `dynamodb:*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The dynamodb-lambda-policy allows all actions on the specified dynamodb resource because under the action attribute it states `dynamodb:*`
```

> You could make this more restrict and mention actions like 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could make this more restricted and mention actions like 
```

```
"dynamodb:Scan", "dynamodb:BatchWriteItem","dynamodb:PutItem"
```

# Lambda Functions

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/icon-Lambda.png" width="30%" height="30%">
</div>

> There are two Lambda Functions that are part of this application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two Lambda functions that are part of this application.
```

> One Lambda Function to get or retrieve the coding tips from the database further referenced as the `getLambda`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first Lambda function is used to get or retrieve the coding tips from the database further referenced as the `getLambda`.
```

> One Lambda Function to post or send the coding tips to the database further referenced as the `postlambda`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second Lambda is used to post or send the coding tips to the database further referenced as the `postlambda`.
```

> I am not going to copy paste the code of the Lambda Functions in here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am not going to copy paste the code of the Lambda functions in here.
```

---
layout: post
authors: [nick_van_hoof]
title: 'Infrastructure as code: Terraform and AWS Serverless'
image: /img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/featured-image.png
tags: [AWS,Lambda,DynamoDB,API GateWay,Serverless, IaC]
category: Cloud
comments: true
---

# Table of content
1. [Infrastructure as Code](#infrastructure-as-code)
2. [Introduction and demo](#introduction-and-demo)
3. [Creating the application](#creating-the-application)
4. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
6. [Terraform: the basics](#terraform-the-basics)
7. [General](#general)
8. [Database: DynamoDB](#database-dynamodb)
9. [IAM](#iam)
10. [Lambda Functions](#lambda-functions)

> 11. [Api Gateway](#api-gateway)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. [API Gateway](#api-gateway)
```

      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Sid": ""
    }
  ]
}
EOF
}

# POLICIES
resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "dynamodb-lambda-policy"{
  name = "dynamodb_lambda_policy"
  role = "${aws_iam_role.lambda-iam-role.id}"
  policy = <<EOF
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:*"
      ],
      "Resource": "${aws_dynamodb_table.codingtips-dynamodb-table.arn}"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
}
```

In the example above the first resource that is defined is an `aws_iam_role`.
This is the role that we will later give to our Lambda Functions.

We then create the `aws_iam_role_policy` resource which we link to the `aws_iam_role`.
The first `aws_iam_role_policy` is giving this role permission to invoke any action on the specified DynamoDB resource.
The second `role_policy` allows a resource with this role to send logs to CloudWatch.

A couple of things to notice:
* The `aws_iam_role` and the `aws_iam_role_policy` are connected by the `role` argument of the role_policy resource
* In the `statement` attribute of the `aws_iam_role_policy` we grant (Effect attr.) permission to do some actions (Action attr.) on a certain Resource (Resource attr.)

> * A resource is referenced by its *arn* or *Amazon Resource Name* which uniquely identifies this resource on aws

Reviewer 2: Think *arn* should be capitalised as well?
```suggestion
* A resource is referenced by its *ARN* or *Amazon Resource Name* which uniquely identifies this resource on AWS
```

* There are two ways to specify an `aws_iam_role_policy`: 
    * using the *until EOF* syntax (like I did here)
    * using a separate Terraform `aws_iam_policy_document` element that is coupled to the `aws_iam_role_policy`

> * The dynamodb-lambda-policy allows all actions on the specified DynamoDB resource because under the action attribute it states `dynamodb:*`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `dynamodb-lambda-policy` allows all actions on the specified DynamoDB resource because under the `Action` attribute it states `dynamodb:*`
```

You could make this more restricted and mention actions like 

```
"dynamodb:Scan", "dynamodb:BatchWriteItem","dynamodb:PutItem"
```

# Lambda Functions

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/icon-Lambda.png" width="30%" height="30%">
</div>

There are two Lambda Functions that are part of this application.
The first Lambda is used to get or retrieve the coding tips from the database further referenced as the `getLambda`.
The second Lambda is used to post or send the coding tips to the database further referenced as the `postlambda`.

I am not going to copy paste the code of the Lambda Functions in here.
You can check it out in the repository linked to this blog 

> (Gitlab repository: [https://gitlab.com/nxtra/codingtips-blog](https://gitlab.com/nxtra/codingtips-blog){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(GitLab repository: [https://gitlab.com/nxtra/codingtips-blog](https://gitlab.com/nxtra/codingtips-blog){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}).
```

> Here I will demonstrate the example of the `getLambda` function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here I will demonstrate the example of the `getLambda` function.
```

> The postLambda is deployed in the same way and you can find the Terraform definitions in the git repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `postLambda` is deployed in the same way and you can find the Terraform definitions in the Git repository.
```

A Lambda Function is a little different from the other infrastructure we defined here.
Not only do we need a Lambda Function as infrastructure.
We also need to specify the code that runs in this Lambda Function.

> But where will AWS find that specific code when deploying the Lambda Function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But where will AWS find that specific code when deploying the Lambda Function?
```

They don't have access to your local machine, have they?

> That is why you first need to ship your code to a `S3 Bucket` on AWS where it can be found when your Function is being deployed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is why you first need to ship your code to a S3 Bucket on AWS where it can be found when your Function is being deployed.
```

> That also means creating an S3 Bucket, which you can do with this command when you want it in region eu-west-1 (Ireland):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That also means creating an S3 Bucket, which you can do with this command when you want it in region `eu-west-1` (Ireland):
```

```bash
aws s3api create-bucket --bucket codingtips-node-bucket --region eu-west-1 --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=eu-west-1
```

Now you have to zip the code of your Lambda Functions:
```bash
zip -r getLambda.zip index.js
```

And upload that file to s3:
```bash
aws s3 cp getLambda.zip s3://codingtips-node-bucket/v1.0.0/getLambda.zip
```

> Mind that I am sending it to a bucket named *codingtips-node-bucket* in a folder *v1.0.0* with filename *getLambda.zip*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mind that I am sending it to a bucket named `codingtips-node-bucket` in a folder `v1.0.0` with filename `getLambda.zip`.
```

Okay, the code is where it needs to be.
Now let's see how we specify these functions using Terraform.

```hcl-terraform
resource "aws_lambda_function" "get-tips-lambda" {
  function_name = "codingTips-get"

  # The bucket name as created earlier with "aws s3api create-bucket"
  s3_bucket = "${var.s3_bucket}"
  s3_key = "v${var.lambda_version}/getLambda.zip"

  # "main" is the filename within the zip file (index.js) and "handler"
  # is the name of the property under which the handler function was
  # exported in that file.
  handler = "index.handler"
  runtime = "nodejs8.10"
  memory_size = 128

  role = "${aws_iam_role.lambda-iam-role.arn}"
}

resource "aws_lambda_permission" "api-gateway-invoke-get-lambda" {
  statement_id  = "AllowAPIGatewayInvoke"
  action        = "lambda:InvokeFunction"
  function_name = "${aws_lambda_function.get-tips-lambda.arn}"
  principal     = "apigateway.amazonaws.com"

  # The /*/* portion grants access from any method on any resource
  # within the specified API Gateway.
  source_arn = "${aws_api_gateway_deployment.codingtips-api-gateway-deployment.execution_arn}/*/*"
}
```

> * Notice that we tell Terraform the S3 Bucket and directory to look for the code.

Reviewer 2: Best to remove the periods at the ends to be consistent with the other lists.
```suggestion
* Notice that we tell Terraform the S3 Bucket and directory to look for the code
```

> * We specify the runtime and memory for this Lambda Function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We specify the runtime and memory for this Lambda Function
```

> * `index.handler` points to the file and function where to enter the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `index.handler` points to the file and function where to enter the code
```

* The `aws_lambda_permission` resource is the permission that states that this Lambda Function may be invoked by the API Gateway that we created

> # Api Gateway

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# API Gateway
```

 
<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/icon-apigateway.png" width="15%" height="15%">
</div>

I kept the most difficult one for last.
On the other hand, it is also the most interesting.
I hand Terraform a *Swagger* definition of my api.
You can also do this without Swagger, but then you will have to specify a lot more resources.

> The swagger api definition looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The swagger API definition looks as follows:
```

        - application/json
      responses:
        200:
          description: "The codingtips request successful."
          schema:
            type: array
            items:
              $ref: "#/definitions/CodingTip"
      x-amazon-apigateway-integration:
        uri: ${get_lambda_arn}
        passthroughBehavior: "when_no_match"
        httpMethod: "POST"
        type: "aws_proxy"
    post:
      description: "post a coding tip"
      consumes:
        - application/json
      responses:
        200:
          description: "The codingtip was added successfully"
      x-amazon-apigateway-integration:
        uri: ${post_lambda_arn}
        passthroughBehavior: "when_no_match"
        httpMethod: "POST"
        type: "aws_proxy"

definitions:
  CodingTip:
    type: object
    description: "A coding tip"
    properties:
      tip:
        type: string
        description: "The coding tip"
      date:
        type: number
        description: "date in millis when tip was entered"
      author:
        type: string
        description: "Author of the coding tip"
      category:
        type: string
        description: "category of the coding tip"
    required:
      - tip
```

> If you do not know Swagger yet copy the above and paste it in the online swagger editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not know Swagger yet, copy the above and paste it in the online ([Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}).
```

> ([Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> This will grant you a nice visual overview of the api definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will grant you a nice visual overview of the API definition.
```

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/swagger.png" width="60%" height="60%">
</div>

> There is only one AWS specific thing in the swagger specification above and that is `x-amazon-apigateway-integration`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is only one AWS specific thing in the Swagger specification above and that is `x-amazon-apigateway-integration`.
```

> This is specifying the details of how the api is integrating with the backend. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is specifying the details of how the API is integrating with the backend. 
```

> * Remark that this is always a `POST` even if the http method of the resource path is a `GET`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Remark that this is always a `POST` even if the HTTP method of the resource path is a `GET`
```

* `aws_proxy` means that the request is passed to the Lambda Function without manipulation

> * `when_no_match` passes the request body to the backend without tranforming it when no `requestTemplate` is specified for the Content-Type 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `when_no_match` passes the request body to the backend without tranforming it when no `requestTemplate` is specified for the `Content-Type` 
```

> * `uri` is referencing a variable eg. `${get_lambda_arn}` that terraform passes to the swagger definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `uri` is referencing a variable eg. `${get_lambda_arn}` that Terraform passes to the Swagger definition
```

We'll see this in a minute.

> As I already mentioned using Swagger to define your API Gateway has some advantages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As I already mentioned, using Swagger to define your API Gateway has some advantages:
```

> * It keeps your terraform more concise

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It keeps your Terraform more concise
```

> * You can use this swagger to get a nice representation of your API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can use this Swagger to get a nice representation of your API
```

```hcl-terraform
resource "aws_api_gateway_rest_api" "codingtips-api-gateway" {
  name        = "CodingTipsAPI"
  description = "API to access codingtips application"
  body        = "${data.template_file.codingtips_api_swagger.rendered}"
}

data "template_file" codingtips_api_swagger{
  template = "${file("swagger.yaml")}"

  vars {
    get_lambda_arn = "${aws_lambda_function.get-tips-lambda.invoke_arn}"
    post_lambda_arn = "${aws_lambda_function.post-tips-lambda.invoke_arn}"
  }
}

resource "aws_api_gateway_deployment" "codingtips-api-gateway-deployment" {
  rest_api_id = "${aws_api_gateway_rest_api.codingtips-api-gateway.id}"
  stage_name  = "default"
}

output "url" {
  value = "${aws_api_gateway_deployment.codingtips-api-gateway-deployment.invoke_url}/api"
}
```

> * We start by mentioning the `aws_api_gateway_rest_api` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We start by mentioning the `aws_api_gateway_rest_api` resource
```

> It does what is says and provides an API Gateway REST API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It does what is says and provides an API Gateway REST API
```

    * body references the swagger file

> * The `template_file` datasource allows Terraform to use information that is not defined in Terraform (here Swagger)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `template_file` datasource allows Terraform to use information that is not defined in Terraform (Swagger in our case)
```

>     * Variables are passed to this template_file to fill the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Variables are passed to this `template_file` to fill the file
```

> * For a given `rest-api` to be usable, it has to be deployed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For a given `rest-api` to be usable, it has to be deployed
```

    * This is done by the `aws_api_gateway_deployment` resource
    * It references the REST API

>     * It needs a stage which is like a 'version' or 'snapshot' of your API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * It needs a stage which is like a 'version' or 'snapshot' of your API
```

The stage name will be in the URL to invoke this API.

> * At last the URL on which the API can be invoked is outputted to the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* At last the URL on which the API can be invoked is outputted to the terminal
```

`/api` is appended to have the correct resource path

# Endgame
All right, let's see it now.
Does this actually work?
Here I am running `terraform apply` within the repository linked to this blog.

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img src="/img/2019-01-14-Infrastructure-as-code-with-terraform-and-aws-serverless/apply.gif" width="100%">
</div>

Nice, it worked.
And I only told Terraform about the infrastructure I wanted.
The whole setup process goes automatically!
You can now use the outputted URL to GET and POST coding tips.
The body of the POST should look like:
```json
{
  "author": "Nick",
  "tip": "Short sessions with frequent brakes",
  "category": "Empowerment"
}
```

When you need to couple the API endpoints to a frontend of your own design, you need to set the CORS headers correctly.

> If you want this challenge, there is an other branch in the repository (cors-enabled) where I worked this out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want this challenge, there is another branch in the repository (`cors-enabled`) where I worked this out.
```
